Supplement to the Lineage Prayer for the Lamdré Instructions Composed by Tsarchen
by Gatön Ngawang Lekpa & Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namdrol changchub chenpö wenné su
In the hermitage of Great Liberation and Awakening,
sang chen lobshé tenpé bangdzö dzin
You hold the treasury of the great secret Private Instructions,
khé shing drub nyé tar tsé dorjé chang
Learned and accomplished Vajradhara of Thartse,
tenpé gyaltsen shyab la solwa deb
Tenpai Gyaltsen,1 at your feet I pray.

ewam chökhor tsé yi labrang du
In the uppermost residence of Ewaṃ Chökhor,
jamyang lamé tuksé chokgyur pa
You are the supreme heart-son of the Mañjughoṣa guru,
shé dang drubpé pal la wangjor ba
With mastery of the splendours of teaching and practice,
rinchen dorjé shyab la solwa deb
Richen Dorje,2 at your feet I pray.

These verses were composed by Lekpa Rinpoche.

ganden sabzang chökyi podrang du
In the dharma palace of Ganden Sabzang,3
dü sum gyalwa malü düpé ngö
You are the embodiment of all the victorious ones of the three times,
jamyang lama ga tön dorjé chang
Mañjughoṣa guru, Gatön Dorje Chang,
ngawang lekpé shyab la solwa deb
Ngawang Lekpa,4 at your feet I pray.

rimé khedrub duwé men jong su
In the medicinal valley where non-sectarian scholars and adepts gather,
zabgyé do ngak chökyi dzö dzinpa
You the holder of the profound and vast Dharma-treasury of sūtra and mantra,
lodrö tsungmé talé duljé ngor
With incomparable intellect and attending to limitless disciples,
palden lamé shyab la solwa deb
Glorious guru,5 at your feet I pray.

Chökyi Lodrö wrote these two verses in the Wood Horse year,6 on the occasion of offering the
Lamdré Lopshé to the Sakya Dagchen and his son, in response to a request from Dezhung Choktrul.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "tshar chen gyis mdzad pa'i gsung ngag brgyud 'debs/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986. Vol. 3: 395

Version: 1.0-20210827
↑ i.e., Kunga Tenpai Gyaltsen (kun dga’ bstan pa’i rgyal mtshan, 1829–1870)↑ I.e., Jamyang Rinchen
Dorje (‘jam dbyangs rin chen rdo rje, 1837–1901)↑ I.e., Tharlam Monastery, or Tharlam
Ganden Sabzang Namgyel Ling (thar lam dga' ldan sa bzang rnam rgyal gling)↑ I.e., Gatön
Ngawang Lekpa (sga ston ngag dbang legs pa, 1867–1941).↑ This verse refers to Jamyang Khyentse
Chökyi Lodrö himself and incorporates the syllables of his name, Chökyi Lodrö.↑ 1954