The Heart of the Mahāyāna Path
A Bodhisattva’s Prayer of Aspiration
by Gatön Ngawang Lekpa

Respectfully I pay homage to the noble gurus and supreme deity!
rabjam chok chü gyalwa sé dangché
Victorious buddhas and your heirs throughout the infinite worlds of the ten directions,
dü sum drangsong drubpa rigdzin sok
Together with all you sages, siddhas and vidyādharas of the past, present and future—
tuden tukjé chen nam dak la gong
All you powerful and compassionate ones, turn your attention towards me,
mönlam yishyin drubpar jingyi lob
And grant your blessings so that these aspirations of mine may be fulfilled!

rangshyen khordé gewa malü dang
All my own and others’ virtuous deeds in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
lü dang longchö chö ö ngöpo nam
Together with my body, possessions and whatever is worthy of giving,
lama yidam pak tsok tamché la
I offer in devotion, with respect and pure motivation,
dé gü sampa dakpé chöpar gyi
To all you gurus, yidam deities and the noble assembly!

dedak chen ngar kunzang chöpé trin
Before you all, these vast offering clouds of Samantabhadra
samyé khakhyab sipé tar nepa
Multiply beyond imagining and extend to the very limits of existence.
khyen tsé nü pé wang gi shyepé tü
As you accept them by means of your wisdom, love and power,
drimé gongpa tadak dzok gyur chik
May your immaculate intentions be entirely fulfilled!

tubpé ten dang tendzin dampa dang
May the Buddhist teachings and noble holders of the doctrine,
karchok kyongwé sungma gyatsö tsok
As well as the oceanic hosts of guardians who protect the virtuous,
tutob chok ta khyabpar pelwa lé
All strengthen and flourish, extending to the limits of space itself,
kyegü gelek taktu gyé gyur chik
And through this, may beings' virtue and goodness forever increase!

detar ngöpé lek ché dré ché kyi
Through this excellent practice of dedication and its effects,
khanyam drowé rewa dzok gyur té
May the hopes of all beings everywhere be realised,
zegö longchö dren drok né kyab sok
So that they receive food, clothing, possessions, service, companions, sanctuary and more—
gang dö drenpa tsam gyi drub gyur chik
Whatever they wish for—by simply bringing it to mind!

khyepar dak la pen dang nöjé pé
In particular, may those with whom I have a positive or negative connection,
karnak lé kyi drelwé semchen dang
Those who act in ways that bring me benefit or harm,
ngendrö né su nyamtak gyurpa nam
As well as all those who are exhausted by the torments of the lower realms,
zakmé dechen nyurdu tob gyur chik
Swiftly come to find great bliss that is inexhaustible!

dorna dü sum gé tsok malü kün
In short, by dedicating all virtuous actions from the past, present or future,
sé ché gyalwé jitar ngöpa shyin
In the manner of the victorious buddhas and their heirs,
mikmé gyumé tsul du yong ngowé
Without conceptual reference and in keeping with illusion,
dro kün dzokpé changchub tob gyur chik
May all beings attain perfect awakening!

chi si dé ma tob kyi sipar yang
For as long as I am yet to reach that final stage,
yönten dünden lhami lü tob né
May I gain a human or divine birth complete with seven qualities,1
mejung pakpé nor la wangjor shying
And may I possess the wondrous riches of the noble,
lumé könchok kyab su ten gyur chik
And rely on the infallible precious jewels as my refuge!

tsenden shenyen tsulshyin nyé jé té
May I follow and gratify an authentic spiritual teacher,
tsul né tö sam gom la rab jor shying
Observe the discipline and apply myself to study, reflection and meditation,
changchub sem dang namyang mi dralwar
May I never be apart from bodhicitta, the spirit of awakening,
gyalsé chöpa gyatsor jukpar shok
As I immerse myself in the oceanic conduct of the Buddha’s heirs!

detsé sotar changsem rigdzin gyi
May any stains on my conduct, misdeeds of body, speech or mind,
ta gom chöpé tsul dang mitünpé
Any failure to accord with the view, meditation and action
go sum nyepar chöpé drima nam
Of the vidyādharas, or the code of individual liberation or bodhisattva vows,
puljung nyenpö tsené jom gyur chik
Be eradicated entirely through applying the most excellent of remedies!

nekab küntu tserab dren gyur né
In all situations, may I entirely recall my past lives,
namdak lam la tsönpé lobpa dang
And train with diligence in the utterly pure path.
rabjam gyalwé chö tsul malüpa
May I always uphold the infinite ways of the Dharma
nyampa mepar taktu dzin gyur chik
Of the victorious buddhas and never allow them to decline.

taktu drebü tekpa tadak gi
May I always realise the points of the profound and vast,
zab dang gyaché dön kün ngöngyur né
Which are conveyed in all the resultant vehicles,
sa dang lam gyi dröpa tarchin té
And fully traverse the paths and stages,
pang tok yönten yongsu dzokpar shok
So that I perfect the qualities of abandonment and realization!

kyewa di dang ma ong sipar dak
In this and all my future lives,
gang dang gangdu kyewa dé dang der
No matter where I might take birth,
chik tu shyen la penpé samjor dang
May I never deviate, even for a moment,
kechik tsam yang dralwar magyur chik
From my singular focus on altruistic thoughts and deeds.

si sum drowé mindö mitün kün
May all that the inhabitants of the three worlds find undesirable or unharmonious,
gyu dang dré ché dak la rab min ching
Both the causes and their effects, all ripen fully on me alone!
dak gi dü sum gewa malüpa
And may all my own virtuous deeds of past, present and future
lüchen kün gyi pendé gyur gyur chik
Become causes for the benefit and happiness of incarnate beings!

ngö sam gyü né shyendön drubpé tsé
When working directly or indirectly for the welfare of others,
dü dang dik drok nedön lasokpa
May all outer, inner and secret obstacles, including evil spirits,
chi nang sangwé barché tadak kyang
Corrupting companions, illness and harmful influences,
nakme lung shyin changchub drok gyur chik
Become supports for awakening, like wind that fans the forest flames!

chok chü dak dang ma dak shying nam su
All at once, may I perfectly embrace
sangye chö dang semchen minpa la
The ocean-like activity of the victorious ones and their heirs throughout the three times,
dü sum gyalsé gyatsö trinlé kün
Such deeds as making offerings to buddhas and ripening sentient beings
chik tu düpé pul gyi juk gyur chik
In all the pure and impure realms throughout the ten directions.

lamé sang chen lam gyi gor shyuk té
Having set out upon the great secret path that is unsurpassed,
mindrol nyurlam zabmö né tok né
And realized the profound points of the path that swiftly matures and liberates,
tabkhé trinlé gyatsö drowa kün
May I lead beings through vast, ocean-like skilful action
dorjé dzinpé sa la göpar shok
And establish them all at the level of Vajradhara!

Thus, in response to a request from the sublime dedicated practitioner Lama Jamyang Gyaltsen,
this was composed by Ngawang Lekpa, a monk-follower of Śakyamuni. Śubhaṃ!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019. (With many thanks to Alak Zenkar Rinpoche for his kind clarification).
↑ i.e., long life, freedom from ill health, a beautiful form, high birth, great riches, good
fortune, and great wisdom